Welcome everyone to AI-Assisted Software Development with GitHub Copilot. This is our Tuesday afternoon session.
Today we're going to explore several key topics related to GitHub Copilot and how it can transform your development workflow.
Let me start with an overview of what we'll cover today. First, we'll look at custom agents and how they can be configured for specific tasks.
Then we'll dive into creating instruction files that guide Copilot's behavior. These instructions are crucial for maintaining consistency across your team.
After that, we'll explore CQRS architecture patterns and how Copilot can help you implement them correctly.
Section 1: Introduction to Custom Agents. Custom agents are specialized AI assistants that you can configure for specific workflows.
Unlike the general-purpose Copilot, custom agents have focused expertise. For example, you might create a security-focused agent that only reviews code for vulnerabilities.
Or you could create a documentation agent that specializes in writing API documentation and user guides.
The key advantage is that agents maintain context and follow specific guidelines you define in their configuration files.
Section 2: Creating Agent Configuration Files. To create a custom agent, you need to understand the structure of agent.md files.
These files live in the .github/agents directory for repository-level agents, or in the agents directory at the root for organization-wide agents.
The configuration includes YAML front matter with metadata like the agent name, description, and available tools.
Then the markdown body contains the instructions that define the agent's behavior, expertise areas, and response patterns.
Let me show you an example. Here's a security analyzer agent configuration that focuses on finding vulnerabilities.
Section 3: Instruction Files and Repository Guidelines. Instruction files are different from agents - they define rules that ALL AI assistants should follow.
These files go in .github/instructions and cover things like coding standards, architecture patterns, and quality requirements.
For example, you might have an instruction file for vertical slice architecture that ensures all features are organized consistently.
Or a dependency management policy that defines how to evaluate and add new packages to your project.
The key is that instruction files are canonical - they're the single source of truth that agents and developers refer to.
Section 4: CQRS Architecture with Copilot. CQRS stands for Command Query Responsibility Segregation - it's an architectural pattern.
The basic idea is to separate your write operations (commands) from your read operations (queries).
This separation allows you to optimize each side independently. Commands focus on business logic and validation.
Queries are optimized for fast retrieval and can use different data models or even different databases.
When implementing CQRS with Copilot, you can create instruction files that ensure consistent patterns across all your commands and queries.
Section 5: Dependency Management Best Practices. Managing dependencies is critical for security and maintainability.
Your dependency management policy should define approval processes, security scanning requirements, and update strategies.
With Copilot, you can create instruction files that guide dependency selection and ensure all additions are properly vetted.
This includes checking for vulnerabilities, license compatibility, and maintenance status of packages.
Section 6: GitHub CLI Integration. The GitHub CLI is a powerful tool that Copilot can help you use more effectively.
You can create agents or instructions that know common gh commands for issues, pull requests, and workflow management.
This makes it easy to automate repository tasks and integrate them into your development workflow.
Conclusion and Q&A. We've covered a lot today - custom agents, instruction files, CQRS architecture, dependency management, and GitHub CLI.
The key takeaway is that AI-assisted development works best when you provide clear, structured guidance through agents and instruction files.
Now let's open it up for questions. Feel free to ask about any of the topics we covered today.
Thank you all for joining. Remember to check the repository for example files and documentation. See you next time!